# Nullable value types
## 2.2.1 Aim: Expressing an absence of information
- to represent the absence of a value
- still need to model the absence
  - order info : company detail (optional)
  - personal detail : birth date / death date
  - product filter : no max price

- c# 1
  - reserved value to represent  missing data : decimal.MaxValue
  - a separated Boolean flag

- c# 2
  - Nullable<T>

## 2.2.2 CLR and framework support: The Nullable<T> struct
> The Common Language Runtime (CLR) is programming that manages the execution of programs written in any of several supported languages, allowing them to share common object-oriented classes written in any of the languages. It is a part of Microsoft's . NET Framework.

- checks before using the value
- The Nullable<T> struct has methods and operators available
  - GetValueOrDefault()
  - GetValueOrDefault(T defaultValue)
  - Equals(object) and GetHashCode()
  - conversion
    - T to Nullable<T> : implicit/explicit
    - Nullable<T> to T : explicit

- Boxing behaviour
nallable value type 과 non-nallable value type 은 boxing될때 달라짐
  - When a value of a non-nullable value type is boxed, the result is a reference to an object of a type that’s the boxed form of the original type
  - nallable value type has no boxed equivalent
    > int? x = 10;
    > object o = x; (X)
  - boxing of nullable<T> value depends on (HasValue)
    - HasValue = false -> null reference
    - HasValue = true -> reference to an object of type 'Boxed T'
    > nullable<int> x = 10
    > object o = x

> (MSDN) This can take up to 20 times longer than a simple reference assignment. When unboxing, the casting process can take four times as long as an assignment.

  - Boxing : 값(stack) -> 주소에 담는 것(heap) : 10x ~ 20x slower than generalized reference (=> use generic, or 불가피할 경우 proper casting)
    ```
    int x = 123;
    object o = x;
    ```
    > why? : parameter로 전달 또는 List<object> 형태로 다양한 값을 담도록
    > how? :
    [stack]                  [heap]
    i = 123
    o = (address of heap) -> 123

  - Unboxing : 주소안에 있는 값(heap) -> 값으로 복사해 오는 것(stack) : 4x slower
    ```
    int y = (int)o
    ```
    > how? : 1) check if it's boxed value -> 2) copy the value from heap to stack

## 2.2.3 Language support
- nullable<T> = ? suffix
  - Nullable<int> x;
  - Nullable<Int32> x;
  - int? x;
  - Int32? x;

- null literal
  - c#1 : null aways a null reference
  - c#2 
    - e.g.
    int? x = new int?();
    int? x = null;
    > use the null literal over explicitly calling the parameterless con- structor

    if (x != null)
    if (x.HasValue)
    > check a null before use

- lifted operator
  - Unary:+++ - --!~truefalse
  - Binary:5 +-*/%&|^<<>>
  - Equality:==!=
  - Relational:<><=>=

- THE NULL-COALESCING ?? OPERATOR
  - provide a sort of default value
  - C# 2 introduced the ?? operator, also known as the null-coalescing operator
  - practices
    - 1 Evaluate first.
    - 2 If the result is non-null, that’s the result of the whole expression.
    - 3 Otherwise, evaluate second, and use that as the result of the whole expression