# Generics

Use generic tpyes and methods for flexible, safe code.

C# 1에서 2로 업그레이드에 걸린 시간이 그 이후의 업그레이드보다는 길었다. 그 과정에서 가장 중요하다고 생각하는 변화는 제네릭이다.

-   Type safe at compile time.
-   Use the same type in multiple places without knowing what that type is beforehand.
-   처음에는 주로 컬렉션과 같이 쓰였지만 이후에는 거의 모든 곳에 사용되기 시작. 아래의 경우에 가장 많이 사용된다.
    -   Collections (they’re just as useful in collections as they ever were)
    -   Delegates, particularly in LINQ
    -   Asynchronous code, where a Task<T> is a promise of a future value of type T - Nullable value types, which I’ll talk about more in section 2.2

## 1. Introduction by example: Collections before generics

.NET 1 had three broad kinds of collections:

-   Array : The size is fixed at initialization.
-   ArrayList : Object based collections. Doesn't need to know the size intially and is able to add or remove an item. `PrintNames()` is not safe in the example. Not type safe.
-   StringCollection : Specialised to only handle strings. No invalid casting. Solve both problems above.

```csharp
static ArrayList GenerateNames() {
    ArrayList names = new ArrayList();
    names.Add("Gamma");
    names.Add("Vlissides");
    names.Add("Johnson");
    names.Add("Helm");
    names.Add(12345);

    return names;
}

static void PrintNames(ArrayList names) {
    foreach (string name in names)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(name);
    }
}
```

---

[ArrayList Class (MS Doc)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.collections.arraylist?view=net-6.0)

We don't recommend that you use the ArrayList class for new development. Instead, we recommend that you use the generic List<T> class. The ArrayList class is designed to hold heterogeneous collections of objects. However, it does not always offer the best performance. Instead, we recommend the following:

For a heterogeneous collection of objects, use the List<Object> (in C#) > or List(Of Object) (in Visual Basic) type.

For a homogeneous collection of objects, use the List<T> class.
See Performance Considerations in the List<T> reference topic for a discussion of the relative performance of these classes. See Non-generic collections shouldn't be used on GitHub for general information on the use of generic instead of non-generic collection types.

---

`StringCollection`, `WebRequestCollection`, `ObjectCollection`, etc...
The cost of having all these extra types around is way too high.

## 2. Generics save the day

List<T> solves all the problems we talked about before:

-   You don’t need to know the size of the collection beforehand, unlike with arrays.
-   The exposed API uses T everywhere it needs to refer to the element type, so you know that a List<string> will contain only string references. You’ll get a
    compile-time error if you try to add anything else, unlike with ArrayList.
-   You can use it with any element type without worrying about generating code
    and managing the result, unlike with StringCollection and similar types.

```csharp
static List<string> GenerateNames() {
    List<string> names = new List<string>(); 
    names.Add("Gamma"); 
    names.Add("Vlissides"); 
    names.Add("Johnson");
    names.Add("Helm");
    
    return names;
}

static void PrintNames(List<string> names) {
    foreach (string name in names)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(name);
    }
}
```


**Type parameter vs. Type argument**

```csharp
public class List<T> { // Type parameter
    public void Add(T item) { 
        // Any T that appears inside class becomes a string.
        ...
    }
}
...
List<string> list = new List<string>(); // Type argument
```

The ability to use a type parameter to express a relationship between the types of regular parameters and the return type is a huge part of the power of generics.

**Arity of generic types and mehods**

Generic types or methods can declare multiple type parameters by separating them with commas within the angle brackets.

```csharp
public class Dictionary<TKey, TValue>
```

Although I’d strongly discourage code like the below, one reasonably common pattern is to have a nongeneric static class providing helper methods that refer to other generic types with the same name.

```csharp
public enum IAmConfusing {}
public class IAmConfusing<T> {}
public struct IAmConfusing<T1, T2> {}
public delegate void IAmConfusing<T1, T2, T3> {}
public interface IAmConfusing<T1, T2, T3, T4> {}

// 반복된 패턴
public static Tuple<T1> Create<T1>(T1 item1)
{
    return new Tuple<T1>(item1);
}
public static Tuple<T1, T2> Create<T1, T2>(T1 item1, T2 item2)
{
    return new Tuple<T1, T2>(item1, item2);
}

// 그 덕에 아래와 같은 코드를
new Tuple<int, string, int>(10, "x", 20)

// 이렇게 좀 더 쉽게 사용할 수 있다. 타입 추론 활용한 파워풀 사례.
Tuple.Create(10, "x", 20)

public Tuple<T1> static Create(T1 item1){
    return new Tuple<T1>(item1);
}
public Tuple<T1, T2> static Create(T1 item1, T2 itme2){
    return new Tuple<T1, T2>(item1, item2);
}

```

## 3. What can be generic?

Enums can’t be generic, but classes, structs, interfaces, and delegates all can be.

Methods and nested types can be generic, but all of the following have to be non- generic:
- Fields
- Properties
- Indexers
- Constructors 
- Events
- Finalizers


```csharp
public class ValidatingList<TItem>
{
    private readonly List<TItem> items = new List<TItem>(); // TItem is used as an argument here
}
```

## 4. Type inference for type arguments to methods

In some cases, the compiler can determine the type arguments for a call without you having to provide them in the source code.

```csharp
List<int> numbers = new List<int>();
//...
List<int> firstTwo = CopyAtMost<int>(numbers, 2);

// 동일한 코드, 첫번째 파라미터로 타입 추론
// Generic 메서드인데 호출할 때, 타입을 사용하지 않
List<int> firstTwo = CopyAtMost(numbers, 2);


public static List<T> CopyAtMost<T>(List<T> input, int maxElements)
```

This is exactly the same method call in terms of the IL the compiler will generate. But you haven’t had to specify the type argument of int; the compiler inferred that for you. It did that based on your argument for the first parameter in the method. You’re using an argument of type List<int> as the value for a parameter of type List<T>, so T has to be int.


Tuple family of types that consists of Tuple<T1>, Tuple<T1, T2>, Tuple<T1, T2, T3>, and so forth.

```csharp
public static Tuple<T1> Create<T1>(T1 item1)
{
    return new Tuple<T1>(item1);
}
public static Tuple<T1, T2> Create<T1, T2>(T1 item1, T2 item2)
{
    return new Tuple<T1, T2>(item1, item2);
}

// ...

new Tuple<int, string, int>(10, "x", 20);

// you can write this due to the type inference
Tuple.Create(10, "x", 20);  // This is powerful technique.
```

Three possiblilities:

-   Type inference succeeds and gives you the result you want. Hooray.
-   Type inference succeeds but gives you a result you didn’t want. Just explicitly specify type arguments or cast some of the arguments. For example, if you wanted a `Tuple<int, object, int>` from the preceding Tuple.Create call, you could specify the type arguments to Tuple.Create explicitly or just call new `Tuple<int, object, int>(...)` or call `Tuple.Create(10, (object) "x", 20)`.
-   Type inference fails at compile time. Sometimes this can be fixed by casting some of your arguments. For example, the null literal doesn’t have a type, so type inference will fail for `Tuple.Create(null, 50)` but succeed for `Tuple.Create((string) null, 50)`. Other times you just need to explicitly specify the type arguments.

For the last two cases, the option you pick rarely makes much difference to readability in my experience. Understanding the details of type inference can make it easier to predict what will work and what won’t, but it’s unlikely to repay the time invested in studying the specification. 

## 5. Type constraints

```csharp
static void PrintItems(List<IFormattable> items) // Can't print decimal though

List<decimal> nums = new() { 1, 2, 3 };
PrintItems(nums) // will it work?

static void PrintItems<T>(List<T> items) where T : IFormattable
```

Type constraints aren’t limited to interfaces. The following type constraints are available:
- Reference type constraint—where T : class. The type argument must be a reference type. (Don’t be fooled by the use of the class keyword; it can be any reference type, including interfaces and delegates.)
- Value type constraint—where T : struct. The type argument must be a non-nullable value type (either a struct or an enum). Nullable value types (described in section 2.2) don’t meet this constraint.
- Constructor constraint—where T : new(). The type argument must have a public parameterless constructor. This enables the use of new T() within the body of the code to construct a new instance of T.
- Conversion constraint —where T : SomeType. Here, SomeType can be a class, an interface, or another type parameter as shown here:
– where T : Control
– where T : IFormattable
– where T1 : T2

## 6. The default and typeof operators

C# 1 already had the typeof() operator accepting a type name as its only operand. C# 2 added the default() operator and expanded the use of typeof slightly.

For reference types, that’s a null reference; for non-nullable value types, it’s the “all zeroes” value (0, 0.0, 0.0m, false, the UTF-16 code unit with a numerical value of 0, and so on); and for nullable value types, it’s the null value for the type.

- default(T)
- default(int)
- default(string)
- default(List<T>)
- default(List<List<string>>)


Another takeaway from this output is the format of the name of a generic type when you’re using reflection. 

The List`1 indicates that this is a generic type called List with generic arity 1 (one type parameter), and the type arguments are shown in square brackets afterward.

The final bullet in our earlier list was typeof(List<>). That appears to be miss- ing a type argument altogether. This syntax is valid only in the typeof operator and refers to the generic type definition.

## 7. Generic type initialization and state

As you saw when using the typeof operator, List<int> and List<string> are effectively different types that are constructed from the same generic type definition. That’s not only true for how you use the types but also true for how types are initial- ized and how static fields are handled.

There are two results to focus on in that output. First, the Generic- Counter<string> value is independent of GenericCounter<int>. Second, the static constructor is run twice: once for each closed, constructed type. 

Essentially you can regard Generic- Counter<string> and GenericCounter<int> as independent types.

To complicate things further, generic types can be nested within other generic types. When that occurs, there’s a separate type for each combination of type argu- ments. For example, consider classes like this:
```csharp
class Outer<TOuter>
{
    class Inner<TInner>
    {
        static int value;
    }
}
```

- Outer<string>.Inner<string> 
- Outer<string>.Inner<int>
- Outer<int>.Inner<string>
- Outer<int>.Inner<int>
